LIFE OF ANACREON

gift for the birthday of Antonia, whose looks like
her wit are beyond compare.

Cicero Tusculsm Dispczlatzons: Anacreon’s poetical
works are entirely erotic.

Athenaeus Doctors a! Dinner: According to Posi-
donius, Anacreon mentions three musical modes, the
Phrygian, the Dorian, and the Lydian, these being
the only modes he ever uses.

The Same [onfr. —l5Jz The great grammarian
Aristarchus says in his note on these lines that the
ancients used garlands of willow. But Tenarus
declares that such garlands are not used by persons
of refinement, and the other connnentatorsl have
made irrelevant remarks upon the passage.

Aelian Natural Histoaeys [on fr. 52]: The reference
is to adulterers3 and indeed Aristophanes of
Byzantium stoutly opposes the view that we should
read ἐροέσσης ‘ charming ’ for κεροέσσης ‘ horned‚'
and I must say that I agree with him.

Seneca Letters lo Lucilius: The grammarian
Didy mus wrote four thousand books. Ι should pity
him if he had merely read so many useless works.
'Ihe list includes treatises in 11 luch he discusses the
birthplace os Homer, the true mot-hei of Aeneas,
whether Anacreon was more of a rake than a sot,
whether Sappho was a prostitute, and other questions
the answers to which you ought to forget if you
knew them. And then people complain that life is
short.

135

