SACADAS

L1Fr„

Ο

Pausanias Description of (ἲν-εσσε [on Mount Heli-
con]: The poets or persons otherwise eminent in
music who have been accorded statues are these.
Thamyris is represented as lie was when he had gone
blind, holding a broken lyre, Arion of Methymna is
seated on a dolpliin, Sacadas of Argos is portrayed,
by a sculptor who did not understand Pindar's
Prelude in his honour, as a flate-player no bigger
than his flutes, Hesiod sits with his lyre upon liis
lap, etc.

Plutarch illusio [on flate-sung Nomesj: There is
another ancient Nonie called Cradias, which Hip-
ponax declares to have been played by Mimnermus.
For in the earliest times the singers to the flute
sang elegiae verse set to music. This is made clear
by the Panathenaic register of the winners of the
musical contest. Sacadas of Argos also, who is
mentioned by Pindar, was a composer of tunes and
elegiae poenis set to tunes, and at the sanie tiine
was a great fltite-player with three Pythian victories
to his name. lt seems that of the three ‘modes'
employed by Polymnastus and Sacadas, the Dorian,
the Phrygian, and the Lydian, Sacadas taught liis

5

