LIFE OF SACADAS

chorus 'co sing successive strophes composed by him
in each, and in that order, the Nome in question
being called the Three-Part owing ’co these changes
of ‘model However, according to the register of
poets at Sicyon, the inventor of this Nome was
Clonas. The first establishment of music at Sparta
was due to Terpander. The second is best ascribed
to Thaletas, Xenodamus, Xenocritus, Polymnastus,
and Sacadas of Argos, These were the 111611 who
introduced the Dances (ψ’ Xalced Yoedlzs at Sparta,
the Provings in Arcadia, and the (imment-Sanga· as
they are called at Argos. Thaletas, Xenodamus, and
Xenocritus were composers of Paeans, Polymnastus
of the Orthian or High-pitchcd Songs, and Sacadas
of Elegiae.

Pausanias Description (gf (ἐνοῦσα [011 the Pythian
Games] : In the 3rd year of the 48th Olympiaci . . .¹
the victors proclailned were a Cephallenian named
Melampus for lyre-song, Echembrotus the Arcadian
for flate-song, and Sacadas of Argos for 111116-
playing. The same Sacadas was also victor 111 the
two succeeding Pythiads.

The Same [on Olylnpia]: Next 10 Pyrrhus is .·1
carved slah bearing the representation of a little
man with flutes. This is the man who won Pythian
victories after Sacadas of ArgoS.2 For Sacadas won

¹ see 011 Echembr. above '2 text perh. corrupt

